Accessibility help
Skip to navigation
Skip to content
Skip to footer
S&P 500
Minus
−1.07%
Shanghai
Minus
−0.10%
FTSE 100+0.29%
Euro/Dollar
Minus
−0.23%
OPEN SIDE NAVIGATION MENU
OPEN SEARCH BAR
Subscribe
Sign In
HOME
	
MARKETS DATA
MENU
SEARCH
Financial Times
Subscribe
Sign In


Financial Times Home
X Corp
Musk’s X obtains $44bn valuation in sharp turnaround

Social media site was valued at less than $10bn in September

Commerce secretary touts Elon Musk’s Starlink for US broadband scheme
US banks
The Big Read. Has Goldman Sachs already chosen its next CEO?
Editor's picks
opinion content. 
‘Stock vigilantes’ are more myth than reality
Katie Martin
opinion content. 
Will anybody buy a ‘Mar-a-Lago accord’?
Martin Wolf
TOP STORIES
Supreme Court US
US chief justice rebukes Trump after president’s threat to impeach judges
War in Ukraine
Putin agrees 30-day halt to strikes on Ukrainian energy infrastructure in Trump call
Trump’s peace efforts falter as Putin stands firm
Turkish politics
Erdoğan’s main rival detained by Turkish police
 UPDATED AN HOUR AGO
US Treasury bonds
Investors pump $22bn into short-term US debt to ride out market ‘storm’
3 HOURS AGO
SPOTLIGHT
Donald Trump
Is Trump above the law?

Legal experts say the president’s willingness to defy America’s judiciary threatens a constitutional crisis

Eurozone interest rates
Bundesbank enlists AI to prove ECB’s dovish bias
3 HOURS AGO
NEWS
Italian politics
Meloni warns EU against ‘vicious circle’ of tariff war with Trump
3 HOURS AGO
BYD Co Ltd
China delays approval of BYD’s Mexico plant
Ben & Jerry's Homemade Inc
Ben & Jerry’s says CEO ousted by Unilever over political activism
Most read
US chief justice rebukes Trump after president’s threat to impeach judges
Putin agrees 30-day halt to strikes on Ukrainian energy infrastructure in Trump call
Musk’s X obtains $44bn valuation in sharp turnaround
opinion content. 
The US establishment is scared of its own shadow
Wall Street stocks slide as sell-off in tech shares picks up pace
Samsung Electronics Co Ltd
Samsung promises to pursue deals in ‘do or die’ bid to revive growth
 UPDATED 28 MINUTES AGO
Chip sector supplier raises $3bn in Japan’s biggest IPO since 2018
US inflation
Fed faces threat from US consumers’ soaring inflation expectations
3 HOURS AGO
Trump’s trade uncertainty pushes Bank of Japan to hold rates
Nvidia
Nvidia bets on high demand for more computing power with new AI chip
Google parent Alphabet agrees $3.2bn break fee in Wiz deal
Citigroup Inc
Citi cuts top bankers’ bonuses tied to turnaround drive
Indonesian economy
Indonesia shores up rupiah as economic fears mount
 NEW 19 MINUTES AGO
Rio Tinto PLC
Rio Tinto dismisses proxy advisers’ support for review of UK listing
3 HOURS AGO
Driverless vehicles
Swedish driverless truck start-up in talks with banks for US IPO
3 HOURS AGO
Climate change
Carbon dioxide levels in atmosphere reach 800,000-year high
OPINION
opinion content. 
The US establishment is scared of its own shadow

Fear and muddled thinking are stopping Trump’s opponents from acting in defence of a democracy in peril

Edward Luce
opinion content. 
Business Insight. Why China is suddenly flooding the market with powerful AI models

The pace of Beijing’s open source push has been relentless

June Yoon
opinion content. 
Gas, not net zero, has driven up UK power bills
Pilita Clark
opinion content. 
Europe’s moment is more than reheated Gaullism
Sylvie Kauffmann
opinion content. 
Lex. Google’s $32bn cloud deal rests on hazy assumptions
opinion content. 
The FT View. The White House war on federal statistics
opinion content. 
Unhedged. Clarity on tariffs can’t come soon enough
Robert Armstrong
Labour unveils disability benefits cuts that aim to save over £5bn
ASIA-PACIFIC NEWS
Costco leans on mainland China suppliers as US tariffs bite

US companies at risk of scrutiny from Beijing as political tensions mount

BYD shares hit record high on 5-minute EV charging claims
Indonesian stocks tumble 4% on concerns over economy
Asian defence stocks soar to record highs as Europe prepares to re-arm
‘Under the pump’: the cost of living crisis defining Australia’s election
Trump says China’s Xi to visit US in ‘not too distant future’
The Big Read. How Jack Ma’s pivot to AI rehabilitated Alibaba
PODCASTS
Behind the Money. How high gold prices are fueling a chocolate shortage
19 min listen
FT News Briefing. Boeing struggles in the final frontier
11 min listen
Unhedged Podcast. How will Europe pay for its new weapons?
32 min listen
Money Clinic with Claer Barrett. Investment Clinic: I’m almost 50 – is it too late to start investing?
33 min listen
LIFE & ARTS
Travel
Adrenaline, avalanches and Olympic ambitions: freeride skiing reaches for the big time
Arts books
Review. The Alienation Effect — Goldfinger, Lubetkin and the émigrés who reshaped modern Britain
Collecting
How Picasso became the ultimate prize for China’s new collectors
Style
Running stores get a stylish upgrade
Interiors
HTSI. Hay’s Villa Colucci: an Italian palazzo with Danish design edge
VIDEO
play video content. 
FT Film27 min
Nvidia's rise in the age of AI | FT Film
play video content. 
FT Standpoint2 min
The long walk: towards gender equality in politics
play video content. 
FT Film35 min
'Film me!’: Russia's executions of Ukrainian POWs point to a policy
play video content. 
FT Film31 min
Lars Windhorst and H2O: scandal, spies and the superyacht
HIGHLIGHTS
The costly end of Europe’s ‘peace dividend’

Defence spending at 3.5% of GDP would have cost EU an extra $387bn a year since finish of cold war

FT Asset Management. The fall of a trading titan
opinion content. 
How to spot a low performer
Pilita Clark
The Big Read. How Jack Ma’s pivot to AI rehabilitated Alibaba
End of ‘blank cheque’ era for outside consultants in Saudi Arabia
Lunch with the FT. Indian foreign minister S Jaishankar: ‘The virtues of the old world order are exaggerated’
opinion content. 
Data Points. Have humans passed peak brain power?
John Burn-Murdoch
MARKETS NEWS
Investors slash US equity holdings by most ever, BofA survey shows

Threat to global growth from Trump’s trade tariffs sparks ‘bull crash’ in fund manager sentiment

Wall Street stocks slide as sell-off in tech shares picks up pace
Short sellers make $16bn profit from Tesla’s share price plunge
Sterling climbs above $1.30 for first time since November
Investors seek to profit from Russia as Trump pursues rapprochement
US listings often fail to boost European companies’ valuations
Bet on Nigerian recovery draws investors seeking to dodge trade wars
TECHNOLOGY
Due Diligence. Google’s $32bn test of Trump’s antitrust stance

Plus, Warren Buffett bulks up on Japanese conglomerates and Saudi Arabia reins in its consultant spending

3 HOURS AGO
Two Democrats on US antitrust panel say they were ‘illegally fired’ by Trump
opinion content. 
Business Insight. Why China is suddenly flooding the market with powerful AI models
June Yoon
French music streamer Deezer breaks even for first time
opinion content. 
Lex. Google’s $32bn cloud deal rests on hazy assumptions
Alphabet agrees to buy cyber security group Wiz for $32bn
The Independent to launch news service supported by Google AI
EXPLORE MORE EVENTS FROM THE FT
Upcoming events

Discover unmissable flagship events with FT journalists to expand your thinking and elevate your career

Explore all events
FT LIVE
Commodities Global Summit
Delivering stability amid disruption
MONDAY, 24 MARCH
LAUSANNE, SWITZERLAND & ONLINE
FT LIVE
Russia vs Ukraine: the final reckoning?
Exclusively for FT Subscribers
THURSDAY, 27 MARCH
ONLINE
FT LIVE
Driving Growth in a New Insurance Ecosystem
Navigating relentless change in the insurance industry
WEDNESDAY, 2 APRIL
ONLINE
Join the discussion

FT Forums is a series of members only communities, powered by the Financial Times

WOMEN IN BUSINESS FORUM
A dedicated programme to accelerate mid-career women into senior leadership.
FUTURE FORUM
An authoritative space for businesses to share ideas, build relationships and develop solutions to future challenges.
CLIMATE CAPITAL COUNCIL
Where businesses share ideas, opportunities and challenges with climate change.


Useful links
Support
View Site Tips
Help Centre
Contact Us
About Us
Accessibility
myFT Tour
Careers
Suppliers
Legal & Privacy
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Manage Cookies
Copyright
Slavery Statement & Policies
Services
Share News Tips Securely
Individual Subscriptions
Professional Subscriptions
Republishing
Executive Job Search
Advertise with the FT
Follow the FT on X
FT Channels
FT Schools
Tools
Portfolio
FT App
FT Digital Edition
FT Edit
Alerts Hub
Business School Rankings
Subscription Manager
News feed
Newsletters
Currency Converter
Community & Events
FT Live Events
FT Forums
Board Director Programme
More from the FT Group
Markets data delayed by at least 15 minutes. © THE FINANCIAL TIMES LTD 2025. FT and ‘Financial Times’ are trademarks of The Financial Times Ltd.
The Financial Times and its journalism are subject to a self-regulation regime under the FT Editorial Code of Practice.